[Applause]
hmm so there we go okay so for those of
you saw the keynote yesterday you
probably noticed that Apple's been
rather busy this year and it's open
source has certainly been no exception
for us so there's going to be a
veritable cavalcade of speakers coming
up here after me to describe their
various projects but I'll give sort of a
general overview and introduced the
first of them these are also some
important resources as always you can
find our most recent Darwin sources and
pointers to other important to open
source projects that developer.apple.com
/ Darwin open darwin org is another
project we launched about a year ago in
cooperation with the internet software
consortium so you can get information
there at open darwin org and that's been
been very successful for us and of
course we have our wonderful fink
brethren who have a pink dot
sourceforge.net address and then of
course have to mention free be a seat
yay so we talked a little bit about open
darwin they've started doing something
we really hoped it could be done by an
external but yet you know loosely
affiliated project which is producing
their own darwin standalone releases
those of you who ran the Apple Darwin
releases might have noticed if they
can't tend to tend to come out fairly
seldom and there were general issues
with them that you know we didn't always
have the engineering resources to fix in
a timely manner so with the additional
volunteer resources that open darwin
drug brings to the table they've been
able to do some very high quality
releases of darwin for both the x86 and
power pc so we're very happy to see that
another thing that they've been doing is
providing rpms for all of the components
so you now have an RPM database
installed which you can query to see
where various components belong or where
they came from obviously updates and
whatnot are possible in the future
they're not doing that yet but that's
certainly an option now with real
package management behind the operating
system and the providing SRP amis which
correspond directly to what they used to
build the binary bits the dollar imports
project which will also hear quite a bit
more about in this chain of presentation
has been doing what it can to bring more
third-party software to the platform and
they have a webdav mountable packages
collection already like packages that
open darwin org so you can simply
connect to that in the finder and double
click on one of the packages there and
poof well I don't mean that the way it
sounds I mean bingo that's the word so
we've also changed the way we do open
source releases in the past what we did
was essentially just pushed out copies
of our live CVS repository at periodic
intervals and we had some stuff that was
just live you know on a minute to minute
basis and that was cool from the
perspective being able to see sort of
the work in progress but what it really
didn't do was give you any directly
correspondent bits to Mac os10 or Darwin
eg you didn't know that what you were
looking at at CVS was what you were
actually running nor were those business
totally compile a ball at any given time
because you were looking at top of tree
they might be works in progress they
were obviously synchronization issues
between different projects one might be
n steps ahead of another but there's
interdependencies because someone hasn't
checked that stuff in yet so what we
looked at that and what we started doing
instead is breaking our releases into
what we call on cycle and off cycle
which is on cycle releases are snapshots
of these acts horses that we use to
build the product so now when you get a
non cycle snapshot you know it
corresponds to a given release of mäkelä
scan or given software update of mac OS
10 and they're they're synchronized
together because we didn't have the tag
information exported before that would
have let you sort of recreate that state
of affairs for yourself and some stuff
is still done off cycle a garmin
streaming server Ron daily with gdb GCC
various GPL projects you can still get
the CVS top of tree for that so we're
not doing it for absolutely everything
but for the majority of the bitch we're
trying to move to a non cycle model the
source is now available via webdav as
well as CBS
you can mount the the appropriate volume
and just drag the sources around and
we're continuously adding 2 to what
we've previously releases open source
there's a lot of new open source
initiative fit Apple some of those you
probably heard the announcements about
webcore so the Safari folks have been
working very closely with the cage Gmail
team and you'll hear more about that
this presentation and the javascript
stuff as well of course there's also the
x11 product now and the SDK and we've
been working all over the map in the
third party software and freebsd areas
to update components of mac OS 10 we
have a new TCL new Python Perl and Samba
we've synced up lipsy with freebsd 50 to
bring in all the wrt support and thread
safety so there's too many projects to
mention that we've synchronized for
Panther so coming up next we'll have
someone from the open darwin project
talk a little bit more about open darwin
and and our imports so let me introduce
you now Kevin Van Vechten of the open
door and project and recently of Apple
hi I'm here to talk a little bit about
the open darwin project open darwin as
was mentioned was started about a year
ago and what it is is a
community-supported site outside of
Apple it's hosted by the internet
software consortium neither the is seen
or Apple exercise editorial control over
open darwin so what that means is open
darwin is free to explore technologies
that maybe apple doesn't feel as very
high priority but the developer
community as a whole would like to see
incorporated in darwin and once it's
working there we can advocate within
Apple incorporating those changes into a
future Mac OS 10 release open darwin
provides support for darwin users
provides mailing lists how-to articles
documentation for using various darwin
commands which of course are also
applicable to mac OS 10 and most
importantly open darwin provides
resources for developers we provide the
same mailing list and documentation for
information relevant to porting
third-party open-source unix software to
darwin and just kind of being a central
point for information about darwin
development which of course directly
applies to mac OS 10 because a lot of
key at mac OS 10 technology is like I
oak it from core foundation are also
part of Darwin so one of our primary
goals in open darwin is to stay
synchronized with mac OS 10 we recognize
there's much larger developer community
around mac OS 10 then there is focused
on pure darwin so as much as possible we
want to make it easy to take individual
components of the darwin operating
system from open darwin you could
compile them on your own and substitute
a piece of mac OS 10 with the custom
we as part of that we provide binary
releases of Darwin and components of
Darwin so if you're interested in
playing with a particular version
there's a place where you can go and be
pre-built you could download it install
from a CD we also are working to provide
an easy build system for Darwin so that
you can look at any particular library
command build it quickly and easily
modify it a little bit rebuild it again
install it on your system and use that
for debugging for development all right
and also importantly is open darns a
staging area for external development so
for example in our current open darwin
sources we have some of open dsds sis
traits work as an experiment for dealing
with access control on various dis calls
we also have freebsd command brought
over from the freebsd project integrated
into open darwin test it there and then
they were able to bring some of those in
as part of panther to keep us up to
speed and keep us synchronized with the
other open source projects out there so
open darwin focuses a lot on open
collaboration for developing software
that pertains to darwin and of course
Mac os10 as a whole we host projects
relevant to darwin for example KDE
darwin is currently hosted their one of
our larger projects in terms of code
base darwin ports is mentioned is
another project hosted at open darwin
which is one of our more active projects
we provide the infrastructure so that
people can create projects and allow
developers from the community to sign up
get access to CVS and we're also working
to have a mirrored version of a lot of
the apple projects a streaming server or
header doc eventually we want to see
some of those in a repository at open
darwin so third party and community
contributions can be put into CVS
they're tested integrated and then
advocated back at Apple as a potential
enhancement
bugfix or whatever so the Darwin ports
project being one of the most active
projects that open darwin is a project
to design to port open source software
to darwin its main focus is the easy
installation removal and upgrading of
software from source or binaries so the
binary support israel is still a work in
progress one of the reasons why
mentioning it here in open darwin is is
there's a fair chance that we'll be
using darwin ports as means of building
the individual components of the
underlying darwin operating system at
open darwin so that there would be a
port for each not only third party and
and open-source eunuch software but also
for each of the components of darwin so
it'd be as easy as saying you know
building install core foundation on a
single command line and it could do that
for you there's also a cocoa user
interface to open darwin or I'm sorry to
Darwin ports I lets you browse through
all the available software that
currently has a port file representation
you can choose what you want to build
click on it it'll build install on your
system so the most important thing I
want to mention today is that open
darwin really is a third-party
independent project and it does need
your help to be successful and if
everybody you know joins the mailing
lists and discuss any darwin technical
issues they have it can really be a good
central resource for development for mac
OS 10 for darwin for porting unix
applications also we have a bugzilla
database at a token darwin so you know
there's a good opportunity to report any
bugs with with darwin with any libraries
or commands there at open darwin as well
as you know submitting a patch or at
least making a reference to saying well
this isn't a problem in net BSC or this
isn't a problem in freebsd and then
somebody at open darwin can take a look
at that
figure out what needs to change and we
can incorporate that back into Mac os10
there's a couple mailing lists that open
darwin if you're interested in proposing
projects relevant to Darwin or
discussing new features or enhancements
that be appropriate for the discussed
list at open darwin if you're interested
in submitting patches code documentation
that is appropriate for the hackers list
at open darwin and it's a couple
interesting other sections pertaining to
open source and darwin quicktime
streaming server rendezvous GCC in
exsisted min tools and up next is a don
nelson he'll be talking a bit about
safari hi I'm Don Melton I'm the
internet technologies manager it's apple
computer and i'm here to talk to you
today about safari and open source and
i'll give you a little road map to some
other sessions here at this conference
so Safari it's pretty popular why is the
Far East successful I mean because
people are not only downloading and I
think 5 million so far something like
that they're actually also using it some
of them are making it their default web
browser I think of three reasons why so
popular first off innovative features
get a superior user experience this is a
full-featured web browser people take it
seriously it can do things for you
secondly solid quality real world
compatibility with the web by that I
mean pages look the way you expect and
they look the way web designers expect
them to look too especially if they
write the web standards but hey even if
they don't but most importantly
impressive performance so the fastest
browser on Mac OS 10 we'd eat everybody
not only on the standard benchmarks but
we also beat them in just real world use
loading pages scrolling resizing
launching especially one point it was
faster and now the underlying technology
within safari is built right into Mac OS
10 and it's this underlying technology
that I want to talk a little bit about
today because it's based on open
standards firstly it's based on w3c
standards like HTML for xml CSS dom so
on and so forth but more importantly
it's based on open source and that's
open source from the KDE project the
katie project as many of you might know
is an open source desktop available on
linux and other unix platforms it has
all sorts of applications and utilities
and libraries and one of the big
applications is the Conqueror web
browser and the Conqueror web browser
uses two libraries like it to libraries
HTML and KJ s and we're using those same
libraries within safari first we're
using it in a framework called web core
which is just an adaptor built on caged
ml from Katie it uses most of you HTML
sources about ninety five percent of
them and it has glue code to the rest of
Mac OS 10 which has also been open
sourced we also use javascript core
which is just a simple wrapper around
the KJ s javascript interpreter also
from kte but that's not all Safari also
contains other open source components in
web core and in Java score jobs report
such as the expat XML parser the PC re
regular expression library and even
shock portions of Mozilla code a lot of
people are actually surprised that when
they go perusing through web core so why
open source it's it's all about the
technology it's not just that it's a
good development model but for us it was
a technology decision k HTML and kgs are
just tremendous technologies I'd like to
tip my hat to
Katie developers for their fine work for
that and let me just go into detail it's
exactly why one its small k HTML and KJ
s together about 140,000 lines of code
that's almost an order of magnitude
smaller than some other projects and web
browsers and it's fast because if you
have less source code you've got less
binary code less binary code means you
execute things faster it's also designed
for speed it's really designed well and
it's easy to modify this is a fun source
base to hack it's just a hoot to get in
there and that's around with it too easy
to understand you know there's not
there's not layers and layers of
abstraction to figure out it's very very
straightforward and we try to maintain
that with the rest of our development
okay what are we doing with your
community first off we're working with
the KDE team these are great folks we
have we're on mailing lists with them
we've had at least one transatlantic
phone conference call with the KDE team
HTML and kgs developers and how
important the lead on kgs has actually
been out to the Cupertino campus to
visit with us so they're great folks
we're giving back all of our bug fixes
and enhancements in web poor and
JavaScript core and we also send patches
on the mailing list to the development
team at que te we're also taking in
patches and other changes from the
community in fact just a few weeks
before Safari 101 out David Heights
snuck in another little feature from the
tip a tree KDE and we're sharing ideas
and plans for the future when we work on
something and we know we're going to be
down in section section code base and we
might be pulling it apart we have heads
up guys we're going to be we're going to
be redoing the plumbing on this and that
the Katie folks have done the same thing
with us when large null who's the shall
lead on HTML
I'm going to be mocking with a CSS
parser you know stay out of that we went
great just tell us when it lands so we
can take it and that's one of the things
that went into our beta 2 we're also
planning once now that we've survived
our 1 point 0 release and boy am I glad
that we did that we're going to have
another one of those transatlantic
conference calls with the folks there
but you can contribute to and that's the
other thing that I wanted to talk about
today you can contribute not only to our
projects webcor and javascriptcore what
you can also contribute to a kml and KJ
s because hey it's the same code I mean
it's just fine with us and we'll get it
from tip a tree and we'll swap patches
back and forth we would love to get bug
fixes enhancements and even other ideas
from the community if you go to the
apple open source site you can find the
mailing list that you can join you can
get the tarballs of the current versions
of webcor and javascriptcore and jump in
we really look forward to that now I'd
like to point out a couple of other
sessions here at the conference like say
I'll be here all week come at two
o'clock to the Safari overview it's
upstairs in the presidio room and i'll
be rambling on there for about an hour
and then tomorrow safari technology and
web standards if you care about web
standards darren adler go into detail
for it for it we're going to be covering
some of the new api's and foundation on
thursday there's an overview of
networking that might be useful for some
of you and the marvelous WebKit on
friday and some lower-level plumbing
that folks might be interested CF
network in depth also on Friday thanks
so much and I'd like to call Richard
Blanchard to the stage and talk about
printing
[Applause]
hello I'm Richard Blanchard I'm the
apple engineering manager for printing
and today I'm gonna give you a little
bit of insight in what we've been doing
with our printing projects inside of
Darwin a year ago in this exact session
I was incredibly pleased excited to
announce that we were including cups
coming to expressing system into Darwin
and in the Mac os10 and that's been the
basis of our pan or Jaguar printing
system and our fans of printing system
over the last year spent a lot of time
rolling important fixes from the ongoing
Cubs main line development we use cups
1.1 dot 15 cups Einstein has moved on at
16 17 18 we've taken bug fixes from
those changes and security fixes and
roll them back onto our doc 15 days
that's kept us pretty busy over that
year I've been reading some postings
from people who were concerned they was
the right word that we were maybe
stagnating Darwin and maca was 10 was
using the stock 15 base meanwhile cups
was running ahead was all the way up to
18 that's just not the case as I said
we've been moving these bug fixes fat
but the reason I really bring that up is
not because I'm really over sensitive to
these posts but instead it's because
there's important points there one of
the reasons we went two cups to an an
open-source printing system was for
transparency which so the developers
could look see what we were doing give
us feedback before we actually made a
major relief and in that same vein our
cups repository our CVS repository is
part of Doran is live every day you can
go on to Darwin and see what we've done
any given day and we've had our Panther
cups development which is based on 1 dot
19 up there for some time so again
expansive we're using 11 19 there's some
portent changes in their important fixes
important features there are some
bindings for new languages so they're
java bindings now that will be in
Panther PHP and Perl bindings so you can
actually make cups calls create printers
and print directly without going through
the print system from those languages
there's facts support which is important
if you saw the keynote last night we're
yesterday morning IPP collections which
allow us to do some better error
handling and improve PPD support the PPD
parser in one dot 119 is much tighter
than it was
in earlier versions it'll flag PPD's
that are bad much more easily or much
more clearly and it also allows access
to motion PPD keywords whereas the
earlier PPD libraries did not Kim print
has been out there it's been used by a
lot of our users as has HP ijs this is
actually one of the most exciting things
about using cups is that the world of
open-source printer drivers is available
to our users and do our developers and
this has really been great over the year
supporting some older printers that
maybe the vendors haven't gotten around
to sporting as you can see give print
supports over 500 printers for most of
the major printer vendors hpi jets or
ports a couple hundred HP printer model
that's a lot of legacy printer support
and it's been great for us there's also
been some important support from some of
our Linux cousins if you go to Linux
praying org they'll see some great Mac
os10 printing pages supporting these two
packages so I encourage you to go look
at those this wasn't stolen for the
keynote and I'm very happy I get to
announce today that GIMP prints actually
going to be part of Darwin and Panther
so we'll have that loose drivers in
there by default ready to go but there's
more I saw the keynote there's also fact
in Panther and following our printing
tradition what we wanted to do is take
an open-source core put that into Darwin
and then build on top of it in our
commercial OS so we use the fact that
anybody knows the facts landscape out
there there's really two different open
source projects there's efax which is
very small it's not an incredibly active
project and it's highly fact which will
do everything is everyone faxing and
it's a lot larger we actually went with
a smaller project it seemed to fit our
goals more cleanly so we've got in fact
it's in the Darwin repository right now
and it'll be in cancer and it's
available for you i'll be talking
Thursday much longer about printing in
Mac OS 10 Panther but also going over
some of these these Darwin printing
projects so again most important message
I have for you today is we have three
projects now that are tied to printing
that are all in Darwin we have cups the
print server we have gimp print set of
printer drivers we have efax for our fax
for all three of those projects are live
every day I encourage you that if you're
interested in any of those track our
changes every day
send us mail let's melt a this change
was wrong hey we should pick up this
other change it was coming from another
project we do this so we can be
incredibly transparent to you so you
know what we're doing for our OS is
before we have to release the GM version
so anything you do to help us would be
much much appreciated some of the
introduced storylines is going to come
up here and talk about X 386 so X 486
has a fairly long history on Mac OS 10
that comparatively at least as far as
this operating system goes the initial
darwin support was in the early to late
two thousand with xperia 64 point no
point to in this release you were able
to you had to shut down core graphics
expert e6 would talk to the i/o head
directly to the hardware then in
subsequent releases we added the ability
to run in parallel with aqua you could
have two separate virtual squeeze and
switch back and forth and then we added
a rootless mode in early 2002 and that's
culminated in the 4.3 release which
gives us faster 2d and hardware
accelerated OpenGL now of course the
thing that's missing from here or is yet
to come is the one point 0 release of
apples x11 app which is very exciting
thing in this area and as most you
probably know that's based on the x86
code base at least their current beta is
based on expertise explore point to
point one so what are we planning to do
in expertise six project of course the
most important thing for us is to get
the lot of good changes that Apple's
made in releasing next x11 merged into
the expertise of code base there's a
win-win situation if we can get apples
x11 dot app and the expertise 6 open
source release tightly synchronized and
working hard on that and what really
makes that possible is this x plugin api
which allows open source developers to
really write high-performance like
servers
the problem we had sort of at the end of
the 4.3 development is that essentially
we're trying to do is we're trying to
write an X Window Server on top of
another windows server which is core
graphics and there weren't existing
public API is in Mac OS 10 that allowed
us low enough level access to get the
performance you really needed so in
discussions with Apple we're really
would emerge it was that actually core
graphic because all the capability we
need but that there aren't the api's we
needed our own private ati's that are
hidden and not exposed and therefore not
suitable for open source code so what x
plugin is is it's a library that is
exactly what you need to write an x
server on Mac OS 10 and no more so it's
fairly easy for Apple to maintain as
they go forward and it also allows open
source developers sort of a green light
to go ahead and write very high
performance x servers on Mac OS 10 and
this is really the big news as far as my
part of the talk is that Apple's x11 we
would think of as the first
implementation of an X server using this
x plugin api and actually if you check
it out you can check out the beta 3
source code you'll see it's x 486 with
acceleration features added in and
they're just using opengl core graphics
and this x plugin api so we'd also in
addition to making things go faster we'd
also make them like to make them better
so we're working on adding multiple
visuals of risk classes and depth the
common problem here is that you want to
display an 8-bit suit of color visual
and a 24-bit to color display and
actually beta 3 has a way of doing this
it has some problems we think there's a
slightly more general implementation
that we're going to put in and we also
of course moving forward want to support
new x / 86 standards of course the key
reason to have a version of x 11 running
on Mac OS 10 is an essential
compatibility environment for scientific
and UNIX developers and users and
compatibility environment is only so
good as you stay compatible
with the latest stuff coming out in the
rest of the community so I've listened
some things here that we're working on
our and our X cursor ability to add
curses with alpha channels that are
coming out on other platforms in the
expertise fix project and will be
including those in our Mac os10 support
as well the last thing we like to do now
that the pitcher on Mac OS 10 4 x server
is getting pretty robust we'd like to
add or at least turn our eyes back to my
acute mode and the top of the tree
already has some improvement with this
this is of interest to those of you who
run oak and Darwin or pure Darwin
without the rest of the Mac os10
goodness we'd like to get I awoke it
closer to the kind of performance you'd
expect another open source operating
systems and what's available if he
builds in the top of the tree today I
suggest you do if you're running the
pure Darwin you'll notice that the
drawing performance is much better it
uses shadow FB instead of trying to draw
directly to the frame buffer and that's
much better than what you see in this
4.3 branch so of course we always need
help and if you're interested in helping
I suggest you stop by devel at x86 org
that's the sort of central mailing list
for x86 development and these are some
talks that would be useful to understand
a little bit feed environment that we're
working in here to implement an X Server
so next we're going to have ed Peter
Lynn come up and talk about open office
wake up hi my name is Ed peterlee and
I'm a community contributor to
openoffice.org openoffice.org is an open
source effort back in two thousand sun
microsystems open source the core may be
about 95 ninety-eight percent of star
office to create openoffice.org since
that time it's just been simply amazing
since then there have been 8.5 million
downloads of openoffice.org there in
January released a final beta version
our second beta which we know is our
first beta targeted towards end users
since January we had 30 thousand
downloads per month of this beta quality
software the entire community is seventy
thousand registered users and it's
growing these slides were written while
ago you can go check out the numbers
they're really they're really getting
pretty impressive if you've never heard
of what this is it's a cross-platform
open source office productivity suite
spreadsheet word processing presentation
and it also has graphics engine database
query wizard all this kind of fun stuff
it supports mac OS 10 freebsd the three
main platforms windows yes it exists
linux and solaris and it's being ported
to new ones all the time ir x264 people
working on AIX it's phenomenal the
entire suite has full unicode support
throughout its pervasive the file format
are all XML with open schemas you can
actually start doing full content
delivery systems off of this in an
open-source fashion and also it's got
some pretty good file filters for
exchanging data with other these kind of
popular productivity solutions that are
out there you know what people don't
know the difference today it's really a
lot of fun I was here a year ago saying
we got a compiling we need your help
yesterday we went gold master openoffice
out our 1.0 is
here we support mac OS 10 and we finally
refactored everything to support Darwin
PowerPC as well so now you have a full
office productivity suite on Darwin
truly amazing it runs on mac OS 10 was
x11 graphics and I'm actually pleased to
say it does run on panther with the x11
on the second CD take the installer it
run it just runs and yesterday another
thing people may not be aware of when
released simultaneously in over 20
languages at the same time Italian Greek
French Dutch all of these users now have
localized versions of openoffice.org in
their language I was here one year goes
one person since then I got another core
developer volunteer of course we all
have real jobs in real life to people
and we moved well this is a real job too
but two people never more than six move
seven and a half million lines of source
code in only a year this is an amazing
operating system and this would not be
possible without the synergy of open
source on this operating system you know
what it really is a thing of beauty this
is the x11 version full anti-aliasing
you have access to all of your OS 10
font it's really nice and you can go get
it today we're doing CDs here because
yes she's got a little around you know
around the edges just a little more than
the other platforms about 100 Meg's more
than the other platform but since we've
given up CDs yesterday approximately
five percent of everyone at this
conference now has it on CD yes the UV
is passing csme xavier is this a lot of
heavy drinking one into the CD so
appreciate them
but you know what this proves one thing
we're a great community where community
of doers but you know what we don't need
doers we need dreamers we're not
stopping here this is the beginning this
is the beginning you know what guys the
hard stuff is done it all works we got
to move forward we gotta plow forward
openoffice.org 1.1 is going live on
other platforms with some amazing
features improved script ability support
for writing full infrastructures and
middleware on this at the cross platform
delivery solution mind blowing you can
run your same middleware on OS 10
windows you can throw it back on a
solaris box if you need or if you don't
have a g5 or can afford it like make
some poor and also vertical and
right-to-left languages beginning to get
cjk support arabic doing bitty but you
know what it's not enough so why don't
we you place x 11 we're going to use
core graphics and corpse and we're going
to get it running right on OS 10 we're
going to have tighter Mac os10
integration we have visions of
integrating with services so we can
start exchanging everything with mail
and other applications finally getting
the clipboard working and of course aqua
user interface one that everyone want
well that's not a mock-up this is a
prototype this has been out there and
available for six months go out get it
look at it help us try and find out how
we can do this properly and do it right
now is the time for you to jump in all
you people who weren't core hackers
before who we're afraid to touch make
file now you can start and today I'm
also pretty pleased to announce its
you're not a core graphics developer if
you're not known as 10 developer there
are Java guys out there too we have a
full Java prototype project that is now
up using Java 2d only for the drawing
ninety-nine percent C++ Java 2d for the
drawing and the amazing thing it's only
a week old but it supports japanese text
put on Mac OS 10 in Unicode that's
phenomenal basically come help us find
out where we're going to go this is
everyone think you can actually put part
of you into it we need UI design experts
trying to figure out how to make this
right for a Mac user we need graphic
artists who can actually come and draw
all new icons for get the interface
working Coco developers help us find out
how we can move this to interface
builder and all these other great Apple
technologies we need courageous testers
who aren't afraid and don't get upset if
we happen to just lose that data file
and also we need a Banjul it go out go
out and just tell people about it be
like look this exists you can use all of
your office documents once they of the
word all of your office documents right
now for free it's amazing stop by mac's
at openoffice.org take a look today and
help us out as you can thank you very
much
and now I'd like it's my pleasure to
introduce Wayne raw is going to tell us
about open play hello I'm Lane I'm going
to bring you up to date on open play
which is Apple's open source networking
API that has been around for several
years and was last year incorporated the
net sprocket open source effort into one
larger project it's a cross-platform
project standard space it currently is
running on Mac OS 10 it has a classic
field as well it runs runs under windows
and linux and the mac OS 10 build has
both a TFM based and a ma co based build
it's a modular build meaning that the
underlying protocol like tcp and alpha
our plug-in module there's the
flexibility to add new protocols via
that modularity and in fact this year
that flexibility has been used and the
use has been to add one to do support
it's got a large adoption a lot of
titles are using it a lot more titles
coming out most of these titles happen
to be games because of the net sprocket
API and that's what people know but
there's no reason that it is a game only
API you can use it for any kind of quick
networking that you'd like it has a few
simple layers your application can talk
to any of the layers directly there's
the game interface which is the net
sprocket API very easy to use it handles
multiple users you can group users all
that high level stuff is very easy to do
v it up protocol there's the protocol
module which
is the former open play and it deals
directly with the abstraction of the
modules that you deal with ttp alcopop
and you can talk to those modules
directly as well whichever you would
like the game interface like I said
provides the easiest way to add
networking to your game or other
application it has player management
game management packet management and
again it runs it all the different
platforms and the protocol interface
it's fairly low level it's much closer
to like a socket based protocol it has
the protocol agnostic design so that you
can use one API and you can talk over
appletalk tcp/ip or rendezvous it has
the IP modules for all platform it has
alpha park for Mac OS and Mac OS 10 and
it has rendezvous for Mac OS 10 that of
course is the newest plug-in module that
was developed by cleaver software and
committed back to the community for
everybody to use so that should give you
an idea of how easy it is to add a new
networking API if you happen to have the
knee
if you want to know more about open play
and everything that's going on with that
there's not an open place specific
session this year but you can learn more
about the general OS 10 networking the
higher level DF networking and then just
the general internet technologies that
are available